All right, so you have done a good
job in scaling your servers
both vertically and horizontally.
But guys, what about
this little piece?
What about the database?
Because when load increases, it
is not only about the server.
It's a good thing that you have
already scaled your server.
But your database also
becomes a bottleneck.
So let's understand how can
we scale the data layer,
also known as the database.
So one way is very simple that what
I can do is when my email know,
the scale is increasing, when my
users are increasing, I can also
give more compute power to my
database.
If my database was originally 2,
4 CPU, let's say 4 CPU,
CPUs, I can make it 8, I can
make it 12, I can make it 20,
I can make it like 36, right?
I can make it 128.
So what I can do is I can still
have a single database instance
running and then based on the
load, based on how many active
users I have, I can make this
particular database more
powerful.
So this is one way of scaling,
but still the same problem
number one single point
of failure that what happens if
this database goes down?
Secondly, what happens if
My all data is lost.
So yes, you can make the databases
more powerful by adding
more CPUs and more power to it.
But that's not the right way
to scale a database.
Now you might be thinking
that how can we actually
scale a database, right?
Vertical scaling is good, it
works, it works out of the box.
But now you will be
thinking, hey Piyush, what
about horizontal scaling?
Let's add more databases.
So technically that is not possible.
You cannot add more databases
because database is not a server,
it's not a stateless thing.
It is something which holds a data.
So you cannot really scale a database
like this because let's say you
have some data here, you have some
data here, you have some data here.
So if you are actually
making it horizontal, how will
you keep the data in sync?
Are you also copying the data?
If you are copying the data, then
what's the point of scaling?
Or are you actually
dividing the data?
If you are dividing the data, then
how you will know that which data is
in which server instance?
So let's understand, how can we,
you know, scale the database
in this particular architecture?
Okay, the first way is actually
something known as having more
replicas, kind of like horizontal
scaling, but not exactly.
So we can say multi replica of db.
But in this particular scenario,
when we talk about multi replica
of db, we follow
an architecture or an algorithm
Known as master slave architecture.
In this particular thing, what
happens is you have one master,
this is your one master,
and you have multiple slaves, so
the size will be decreased.
Okay, so let's say you have one
master and you have four slaves.
And these are exact replica
of the database.
What happens that the main,
okay, the application always
inserts or always do the operation
on the master database.
Let's say you want to insert
something into the database,
so you always and always
do it in the master.
Okay, the master instance.
So let's say this is
the master instance.
Always do an insert
operation in the master.
So master has its own storage.
Let's say this is a storage
of the master.
So it is going to create a record
in its database periodically.
These slaves are basically
syncing themselves from
the master and they actually
maintain a copy of the data.
Okay, so this is not,
not real time, right?
This is not real time
because let's say some,
some data is inserted here.
So it will take some time
to propagate to get
copied of that data.
So what these slaves are going
to do is eventually, maybe
after a minute or so, they are
also going to update their local
copies with the exact data.
Now what happens is when your
application wants to retrieve
some data, rather than
disturbing, rather than making
all the requests to the master
instance, they can actually
choose one of the replica.
They can actually ask one
of the replica to give the data.
Now here is the thing.
If you want the accuracy, if you
want the accuracy and consistency
that hey, I want real time
data, I don't want any latency.
In that case, both read and write.
Okay?
Both read and write.
Goes to master.
Okay, goes to the master.
What am I typing for?
Inserts.
Inserts are always done on master.
If you are okay, if you are
okay with little delay of data,
read them from these slaves.
Okay, let me give you an example.
If you are watching a video
on YouTube, you have seen the count,
you have seen the like count.
So those counts and like count
are actually not real time.
Okay, Might be a video
has 10,000 views and you
are seeing 9,000 views.
Okay?
Because what happens is thousand
views are still yet
to be propagated in the slaves.
So where the data accuracy can
be little bit, little bit up
and down, that is where you can
actually use, actually read the
data from the slave and avoid
some load on the master
database.
For example, likes
on an Instagram post, right?
Views on a reel.
So all these kind of data or
analytics about something,
they can be read from the slave
rather than putting a load
on the master instance.
So this is one way
of scaling the database.
So this is, known as the replication
of the databases.
So these are known as read
replicas, okay?
These are known as read replicas.
And this one is known as
primary instance, okay?